# Final Project Assessment

## Self-Assessment

For the final project, I took on the circle role but between the other two members, there was a lot of interchanging work and interaction, so ultimately we worked on things collaboratively. At the outset of the project, I helped search for data sets that would add more information to the initial ones that Devin had found. I also helped with cleaning the data and helping my other team members with things they were having difficulty whether it was the dashboard or the machine learning. The biggest challenge for me was getting comfortable and familiar with using the many different skills that we have learned throughout this course. What made this difficult was that even with the more difficult modules, we were provided a layout and process/procedure and sample code. With this project, we had to navigate through many disciplines and integrate them cohesively so that our final analysis would work and provide us with as accurate as a result as we could without being given a template to work with. Because I didn't have any background in any of the tools we learned, it was a challenge to, in essence, create our own template and then apply everything we learned to analyze our data without specifically knowing exactly our results were expected to be.  

## Team Assessment

I could not have asked for a better group to work with. We formed our group several weeks before the 1st segment was due and came up with a topic relatively quickly. We met regularly outside of class sessions, at least once a week on Zoom and communicated regularly between our meetings on Slack. Our only challenge was trying to add more analysis points to work on with our data set. This was easily overcome because we communicated extremely well and additionally, provided feedback to self-edit and focus on a step-by-step approach. In other words, rather than creating multiple lofty end-goals, we would discuss and together, come up with what was the first thing we needed to do and once completed, what would be the next item that we wanted to get done. This helped develop a much more cohesive view of where we wanted to go with our project. During our communications, we openly discussed any difficulties we had and were all willing to help each other out, provide input and take on any of the tasks that were on hand or help each other complete them.

## Summary of Project

This project analyzed player statistics and shot logs from the 2014-15 NBA season. We believe this season can be pointed to as the one that resulted in a new era and approach to how to build teams both philosophically and personnel-wise placing an emphasis on offensive efficiency and an increase in pace of play. We used Python, SQL, R, several machine learning algorithms, and HTML and JavaScript to analyze and present our data and results. The machine learning techniques we used include oversampling, ensemble classifiers and SVC. We were able to achieve 65% accuracy score using SVC, which provided us with our best results of the different machine learning techniques we used. 
